>> Will Sentance: Benefits of this
approach, years for us to write.
And still fairly typical practice
in professional engineering.
And we're actually gonna see that when we
want to create what's called sub-classes,
these approaches including solution
four are definitely cleaner to write.
But the downsides 99% of
developers fail into whose because
they have no idea how this
is working under the hood.
And by the way, it's not a great design.
We have to uppercase.
That function up there to
let other developers know.
You usually uppercase the first letter
to let other developers know, hey hey,
this function needs the new
keyword to be run to work.
Otherwise if I ran user creator
without the new keyword.
>> Will Sentance: It's referring to
a this that hasn't been auto-created.
It's referring to an object by the name
of this that hasn't been auto-created.
So what would that this refer to, Terry?
>> Terry: Don't know.
>> Will Sentance: Basically exactly.
That would be nice.
But it doesn't anyone know
what it does refer to?
>> Terry: Is it the global content?
>> Will Sentance: It refers to this weird
old thing called the window object or
the global object which,
has everything in JavaScript stored on it.
So if you went to it, so this in global,
first the global window object, or
what's called the global object, which has
every feature of JavaScript stored on it,
and you suddenly now will have a name and
score property on it as well.
That is a bad design decision, in my view.
But functions could sit there and
fundamentally fail when someone else picks
up the code if they don't
know to call the new keyword.
Now, you might say, but
I can see the this, so
I should probably know
I need to call renew.
Yeah, but a lot of the time you
create sub-functions in these.
User-created type functions that return
out objects, you create a sub-function on
the top, and you don't see the first
this reference until way down, and
you think your function's gonna work fine,
and you call it,
it does nothing because you needed
to run it with a new keyword.
So developers help each other out
by uppercasing the first letter
as an indicator saying,
you better run me with a new keyword.
But it doesn't change anything under the
hood, it's literally developers helping
each other out, so
that we know to use a new keyword.
Okay, that's changed in solution four,
that's one of the benefits about solution
four is that solves that problem.
>> Speaker 3: There was a quick question.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, go ahead.
>> Speaker 3: Going back to that code,
or I guess the increment and login,
those functions,
those are object prototype combos as well.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah.
Functions that are stored, they maybe
sort on objects, they maybe sort on
a sub-object of an object, but if it's a
function, it has a function object combo.
Now, all functions are.
Do we care in this situation?
>> Will Sentance: We do not, we're not
that bothered about it in this situation.
We're gonna see we are always,
because it's why we have the ability
to use call, apply and bind.
We'll see that in a moment but
yes to our online friend,
that is absolutely
a function object combo but
it doesn't have any relevance
really particularly here.
Yet all functions
are function object combos.
And just remember when
you have thousands and
thousands of lines of code,
having some organizing approach.
If all we really do when we
write code is saving data.
Like for user's score and
name, saving functionality that
can then be applied to that data.
Wouldn't it be a nice organizing approach
to put the right functionality with
the right data, bundle it up?
That you see how readable and how easy
that makes our lives as developers.
No hunting for the right function, notice
like a massive laundry list of functions,
and then a massive laundry
lists of data to save.
But instead, kind of pass all them
off appropriately that is very,
very nice allowing us to do, run our
functionality on our data directly.
That is our dream, that is our dream.
Now, we start off by putting the function
directly on the object, untenable.
We couldn't have that because we've got
100 functions we want user one to have,
but the same 100 functions
we want user two to have.
So we got have them all copied
on every single object.
That would be ridiculous.
So we said okay,
use the prototypal nature of JavaScript,
that prototypal feature,
such that when we don't find.
We do not store it on the object itself.
JavaScript looks in this little bound up
to what we called user function stored.
We call it whatever we want, but
we hand crafted that bond for
each of the objects that got returned out
of, if you remember, calling user creator.
We hand crafted that each of
those objects that have a link,
a reference up to a single object
where our functions were stored.
We call it user function store, as long as
we called it the same thing we were fine.
As long as we called it the same thing
as when we created the object and
made that link we were fine.
But this was a lot of hand crafting, hand
creating the object, hand making the bond,
hand returning the object.
So JavaScript's designers said don't
panic, we will save you that work,
we will give you the new keyword such that
your function that creates the object
will be much easier to make.
You don't to make
the object yourself at all.
You don't have to make the bond to
the set of functions yourself at all.
We'll make a bond to an object where
you can put your functions, and
that object will be on
the prototype property
of the function that creates
the individual objects.
You could imagine that this
object would be separate but
it kind a make sense to put an own the
functional object combo of the function
that creates the objects that need that,
need those functions.
It may much easier.
It is still fairly typical best practice,
we're gonna see solution for,
says, you know what?
This bit here is funny to call
it a functional object combo.
It's funny to create it as a function and
then use its prototype property to attach
the functions to that prototype object.
Why don't we do it all in one go?
And we call that a class.
But under the hood, it's gonna be this.
Before we get to that,
we are going to see it interlude.
So here, our increment function is
attached to prototype object, so
that when we call user1.increment,
we're not going to find user one,
on, is it increment on user one object, so
JavaScript is looking at the proto
reference up to the prototype object,
we know that because the user one
object was created with a new keyword.
Folk, nothing has changed between this
code that we just saw and this code here,
except that I've slightly change how
the increment function is working.
Let's go back.
Let's see that again.
Nothing has change except there's
slightly change how the increment
function is working here.
Because I want you to see something
here that could often, what if we want
to organize our code inside our
shared functions, increment login,
perhaps, by defining a new inner
function inside the shared function.
This often happens,
so right here we have one line in
code this starts called plus plus.
But of to me want much more than that.